caleb Herring
HW #2 Chapter 6



1. All the trajectories in Fig. 6-8 (below) are horizontal or vertical.
   Can you envision any circumstances in which diagonal trajectories were also possible?

      Answer: If there were two or more processors, two ro more processes could run at the same time.
	  

2. Can the resource trajectory scheme of Fig. 6-8 (above) also be used to illustrate the problem of deadlocks with three
processes and three resources?  If so, how can this be done?  If not, why not?

	Answer: Yes, the chart would now be a 3 dimensional cube.


3. Can a system be in a state that is neither deadlocked nor safe?  If so, give an example.

	Answer: Yes, however the unsafe state can lead to a deadlock. an example of this would be 



4. A system as two processes and three identical resources.  Each process needs a maximum of two resources.  Is deadlock possible?  Explain your answer.


	Answer: A deadlock is not possible. We always have an extra resource to use if a process requests an additional one. In this case, that process can finish and release the two resources it had.


5. Consider the previous problem again, but now with p processes each needing a maximum of m resources and a total of r resources are available.  What conditions must hold to make the system deadlock free?

	Answer: If a process has m resources, then it can finish. As long as there is one resource leftover, a process can finish and release its resources, which will allow the other processes to finish.
	
	
6. Suppose that process A in Fig. 6-12 (below) requests the last tape drive.  Does this action lead to a deadlock?

	Answer: No, Process D is still able to finish. Once its resources are released, the process A is allowed to finish. (or process E)



7. A computer has six tape drives, with n processes competing for them.  Each process may need two drives.  For which values of n is the system deadlock free?

	Answer: As long as n < 6, then the processes will be able to finish without deadlock.


8. A system has four processes and five allocatable resources.  The current allocation and maximum needs are as follows:
    What is the smallest value for x for which this is a safe state?
	
	
	Answer: The smallest value x can be is 2
	

9. Two processes, A and B, each need three records, 1, 2, and 3, in a database.
    If A asks for them in the order 1, 2, 3, and B asks for them in the same order, deadlock is not possible.
    However, if B asks for them in the order 3, 2, 1, then deadlock is possible.
    With three resources, there are 3! or 6 possible combinations each process can request the resources.
    What fraction of all the combinations is guaranteed to be deadlock free?
	
	acb - deadlock free
	abc - deadlock free
	bac - deadlock
	bca - deadlock
	cba - deadlock
	cab - deadlock
	
	Answer: 1/3
	


10. Explain the difference between deadlock, livelock and starvation

Starvation - is waiting for a resource that is unavailable or not working and it is waiting forever
livelock - is being put into busy wait, rather than being put into sleep mode
Deadlock - When a process is blocked and waiting for an event only another process that is blocked 
