Caleb Herring
HW#3


1. The file:  /usr/share/dict/words  is a dictionary on TAZ that contains many of the words in the English language
(as well as some proper names, acronyms, and special “words”)  - one word per line.
In fact, this file contains almost 480,000 “words”.  What is the 172,425th  word listed in this file?

head -172425 /usr/share/dict/words | tail -1

Answer: Harding

2.   Using the man utility, find the descriptions for the following words (just write a line or two):

      a. apropos - searches for instances of keyword. The database searched by apropos is updated by the mandb program.

      b. mkfifo - create named pipes (FIFOs) with the given NAMEs

      c. yum -  /usr/bin/yum to /usr/bin/dnf redirecting executable

           dnf - the  next  upcoming  major version of Yum, a package manager for RPM-based Linux distributions. It roughly maintains CLI compatibility with Yum and
                  defines a strict API for extensions and plugins.


      d. bison - no man entry for bison

      e. yes -  Repeatedly output a line with all specified STRING(s), or 'y'.

      f. rev - The  rev  utility copies the specified files to standard output, reversing the order of characters in every line.
                If no files are specified, standard input is read.

      g. factor - Print the prime factors of each specified integer NUMBER.  If none are specified on the command line, read them from standard input.

3. Using a web search engine, look up the phrase “UNIX EPOCH”. When did the UNIX epoch begin?
   When will it end (precise to the second)?

   It began on Thursday, January 1st, 1970. It will end on January 19, 2038 03:14:07 GMT.
   The second past that, all computers that still use 32 bit Unix Time will overflow.

4. What is your birth date? On what day of the week will your birthday fall in the year 2052?
  09/10/1993

  In 2052, my birthday will be on Tuesday.

5. Why does UNIX distinguish between the standard output and the standard error device,
  when both default to the “terminal”?

  Answer: The idea is that the regular output will go to the output channel,
  while all the error warnings and error messages go to the error channel.

6. If a UNIX file has protection mode 751 (octal), what access privileges do the owner,
    the owner’s group, and everyone else have?

    Answer: rwxr-x--x
